Bypassing MAC filtering in Wi-Fi networks is a technique used to circumvent a basic security measure that many wireless routers implement. MAC filtering involves allowing only devices with specific MAC (Media Access Control) addresses to connect to the network. While this adds a layer of security by restricting access to known devices, it is not foolproof. Skilled individuals can exploit weaknesses in this system to gain unauthorized access. This process typically involves MAC address spoofing, where an attacker changes their device's MAC address to match an allowed device, thereby gaining access to the network.

To bypass the MAC filtering, we can spoof our MAC address to match one of the connected clients. However, this approach often leads to collision events, as two devices with the same MAC address cannot coexist on the same network simultaneously.

A more effective method would be to either forcefully disconnect the legitimate client through deauthentication attacks, thereby freeing up the MAC address for use, or to wait for the client to disconnect naturally. This strategy is particularly effective in "bring your own device" (BYOD) networks, where devices frequently connect and disconnect.

Occasionally, when configuring our MAC address to match that of a client or access point, we may encounter collision events at the data-link layer. This technique of bypassing MAC filtering is most effective when the client we're mimicking is not currently connected to our target network. However, there are instances where these collision events become advantageous to us, serving as a means of denial-of-service (DOS) attack. In the case of a `dual-band` or `multiple access point network`, we may be able to utilize a MAC address of a client connected to a separate access point within the same wireless infrastructure.


### Scanning Networks Running on 5Ghz Band

```bash
sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon --band a
```


Before changing our MAC address, let's stop the monitor mode on our wireless interface.

```bash
sudo airmon-ng stop wlan0mon
```

```bash
 sudo macchanger wlan0
```

### Disable wlan0 interface

```bash
sudo ifconfig wlan0 down
```

### Change the MAC address


```bash
sudo macchanger wlan0 -m 3E:48:72:B7:62:2A

Current MAC:   00:c0:ca:98:3e:e0 (ALFA, INC.)
Permanent MAC: 00:c0:ca:98:3e:e0 (ALFA, INC.)
New MAC:       3e:48:72:b7:62:2a (unknown)
```

### Enable wlan0 interface

```bash
sudo ifconfig wlan0 up
```