
`Airgraph-ng` is a Python script designed for generating graphical representations of wireless networks using the CSV files produced by `Airodump-ng`. These CSV files from Airodump-ng capture essential data regarding the associations between wireless clients and Access Points (APs), as well as the inventory of probed networks. Airgraph-ng processes these CSV files to produce two distinct types of graphs:

- Clients to AP Relationship Graph: This graph illustrates the connections between wireless clients and Access Points, providing insights into the network topology and the interactions between devices.
- Clients Probe Graph: This graph showcases the probed networks by wireless clients, offering a visual depiction of the networks scanned and potentially accessed by these devices.

By leveraging Airgraph-ng, users can visualize and analyze the relationships and interactions within wireless networks, aiding in network troubleshooting, optimization, and security assessment.

# Clients to AP Relationship Graph

The Clients to AP Relationship (CAPR) graph illustrates the connections between clients and access points (APs). Since this graph emphasizes clients, it will not display any APs without connected clients.

The access points are color-coded based on their encryption type:

- Green for WPA
- Yellow for WEP
- Red for open networks
- Black for unknown encryption.

```bash
sudo airgraph-ng -i HTB-01.csv -g CAPR -o HTB_CAPR.png
```

# Common Probe Graph

The Common Probe Graph (CPG) in Airgraph-ng visualizes the relationships between wireless clients and the access points (APs) they probe for. It shows which APs each client is trying to connect to by displaying the probes sent out by the clients. This graph helps identify which clients are probing for which networks, even if they are not currently connected to any AP.


```bash
sudo airgraph-ng -i HTB-01.csv -g CPG -o HTB_CPG.png
```