The primary function of [Aireplay-ng](https://www.aircrack-ng.org/doku.php?id=aireplay-ng) is to generate traffic for later use in aircrack-ng for cracking the WEP and WPA-PSK keys. There are different attacks that can cause deauthentication for the purpose of capturing WPA handshake data, fake authentications, Interactive packet replay, hand-crafted ARP request injection, and ARP-request reinjection. With the packetforge-ng tool it's possible to create arbitrary frames.

To list all the features of `aireplay-ng` we use the following command.

```bash
aireplay-ng
```


# Attacks

It currently implements multiple different attacks:

|**Attack**|**Attack Name**|
|---|---|
|`Attack 0`|Deauthentication|
|`Attack 1`|Fake authentication|
|`Attack 2`|Interactive packet replay|
|`Attack 3`|ARP request replay attack|
|`Attack 4`|KoreK chopchop attack|
|`Attack 5`|Fragmentation attack|
|`Attack 6`|Cafe-latte attack|
|`Attack 7`|Client-oriented fragmentation attack|
|`Attack 8`|WPA Migration Mode|
|`Attack 9`|Injection test|

As we can see, the flag for deauthentication is `-0` or `--deauth`. For this module, we will focus on the `deauthentication` attack. This attack can be used to disconnect clients from the access point (AP). By using `aireplay-ng`, we can send `deauthentication` packets to the AP. The AP will mistakenly believe that these deauthentication requests are coming from the clients themselves, when in fact, we are the ones sending them.

## Testing for Packet Injection

Before sending deauthentication frames, it's important to verify if our wireless card can successfully inject frames into the target access point (AP). This can be tested by measuring the ping response times from the AP, which gives us an indication of the link quality based on the percentage of responses received. Furthermore, if we are using two wireless cards, this test can help identify which card is more effective for injection attacks.

Let's enable monitor mode and set the channel for the interface to 1. We can do this using the airmon-ng command `airmon-ng start wlan0 1`. Alternatively, we can use the `iw` command to set the channel as follows:

```bash
sudo iw dev wlan0mon set channel 1
```

Once we have our interface in monitor mode, it is very easy for us to test it for packet injection. We can utilize Aireplay-ng's test mode as follows.

```bash
sudo aireplay-ng --test wlan0mon
```

## Using Aireplay-ng to perform Deauthentication

First, let's use airodump-ng to view the available WiFi networks, also known as access points (APs).

```bash
sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon
```


From the above output, we can see that there are three available WiFi networks, and `two clients` are connected to the network named `HTB`. Let's send a deauthentication request to one of the clients with the station ID `00:0F:B5:32:31:31`.

```bash
sudo aireplay-ng -0 5 -a 00:14:6C:7A:41:81 -c 00:0F:B5:32:31:31 wlan0mon
```

- `-0` means deauthentication
- `5` is the number of deauths to send (you can send multiple if you wish); `0` means send them continuously
- `-a 00:14:6C:7A:41:81` is the MAC address of the access point
- `-c 00:0F:B5:32:31:31` is the MAC address of the client to deauthenticate; if this is omitted then all clients are deauthenticated
- `wlan0mon` is the interface name


Once the clients are deauthenticated from the AP, we can continue observing `airodump-ng` to see when they reconnect.